---
title: AutoTrader Configuration Files
permalink: docs/configuration
---
`./config/`

Configuration files tell AutoTrader key information required to run.

There are two types of configuration files. The first is the global configuration file, used to specify information used 
throughout AutoTrader, such as mailing lists, account details and other personal information. The second is the strategy
configuration file, which provides all the parameters relating to your strategy. 
Each of these files are written in yaml.

Read more about these files below.


## Global Config 
The global configuration file is read by AutoTrader when runnning the code. Depending on your strategy config file, some 
of the contents in the global configuration may be ignored. Nonetheless, you may specify all your account details in this 
file once when getting started, and easily switch between brokers when required by specifying them in the strategy configuration
file.

If you would like to recieve [email notifactions](emailing), you will need to set up a host email account to send emails from. The 
details of this host account are stored in the global config file under the 'HOST_ACCOUNT' field, as shown below. Next, you can
provide a mailing list of people to send emails to. You can also provide a mailing list in the strategy config file, in case you
would like a different mailing list for different strategies.

```
OANDA:
  LIVE_API: "api-fxtrade.oanda.com"
  PRACTICE_API: "api-fxpractice.oanda.com"
  ACCESS_TOKEN: "12345678900987654321-abc34135acde13f13530"
  DEFAULT_ACCOUNT_ID: "xxx-xxx-xxxxxxxx-001"
  PORT: 443

EMAILING:
  HOST_ACCOUNT:
    email: "host_email@domain.com"
    password: "host_email_password"
  MAILING_LIST:
    FIRST_LASTNAME:
      title: "Mr/Mrs"
      email: "your_email@domain.com"
```


## Strategy config 
The strategy configuration file 




```
ENVIRONMENT: 'demo'

STRATEGY:
  MODULE: 'modulename'
  NAME: 'StrategyClassName'
  INTERVAL: 'M15'
  PERIOD: 300
  RISK_PC: 1
  SIZING: 'risk'
  PARAMETERS:
    ema_period: 200
    rsi_period: 14
    
    # Exit level parameters
    RR: 2
    stop_buffer: 10 # pips

# Define instruments to monitor
WATCHLIST: ['EUR_USD']

BACKTESTING:
  base_currency: 'AUD'
  initial_balance: 1000
  spread: 0.5
  commission: 0.005
  leverage: 30
  FROM: 1/1/2021
  TO: 1/7/2021
```



