---
title: Strategy Configuration
permalink: docs/configuration-strategy
key: docs-config-strategy
---

`./config/*.yaml`

The strategy configuration file contains information related specifically to a strategy. Each [strategy](strategies) requires
its own configuration file to be able to run. It is written as a [.yaml](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/automation/what-is-yaml) 
file. Note that spacing is important in .yaml files, with each level defined by two subsequent spaces.

## Contents
A template strategy configuration file is provided below. Each file will look very similar to this, with the exception of the 
parameters entry, which will be tailored to your own strategy. The required fields are detailed in the following sections.

```
ENVIRONMENT: 'demo'
FEED: 'Yahoo'
ACCOUNT_ID: xxxx-yyyy-000-0001

STRATEGY:
  MODULE: 'modulename'
  NAME: 'StrategyClassName'
  INTERVAL: 'M15'
  PERIOD: 300
  RISK_PC: 1
  SIZING: 'risk'
  PARAMETERS:
    ema_period: 200
    rsi_period: 14
    
    # Exit level parameters
    RR: 2
    stop_buffer: 10 # pips

# Define instruments to monitor
WATCHLIST: ['EUR_USD']

BACKTESTING:
  base_currency: 'AUD'
  initial_balance: 1000
  spread: 0.5
  commission: 0.005
  leverage: 30
  FROM: 1/1/2021
  TO: 1/7/2021

EMAILING:
  MAILING_LIST:
  Full_name
    title
    email: “ ”
```


### ENVIRONMENT
The `ENVIRONMENT` key defines the trading environment. Options are `demo` or `live`. For backtesting and paper trading, 
`ENVIRONMENT` should always be set to `demo`. When you are ready to take a strategy live, switch to `live`.

### ACCOUNT_ID
If `ACCOUNT_ID` is provided in the strategy configuration file, that account number will be used to trade with when running this strategy.
This feature allows different strategies to be run on different sub-accounts of the same brokerage account.

### FEED
The `FEED` key defines which data feed to use in [AutoData](autodata). Current options include `Yahoo` and `Oanda`. The feed
you use will depend on which instruments you wish to trade. However, if you have set up an account with one of the 
[supported brokers](/AutoTrader/supported-api) and you are developing a strategy to use with them, it is recommended that you 
use their data feed, if they have one.

### STRATEGY
The `STRATEGY` key contains metadata about the strategy, as well as parameters defining the strategy. Note that all parameters
defined here will be accessible in the [strategy](strategies), via the `params` dictionary. The keys in this field are described
in the table below.

| Key | Description |
|:---:|-------------|
|`MODULE`| A string containing the prefix name of the strategy module, without the *.py* suffix. |
|`NAME`| A string containing the class name within the strategy module. |
|`INTERVAL`| The granularity of the strategy, in the [format required](autodata) by the `FEED` (eg. 'M15')|
|`PERIOD`| The number of candles to fetch when live trading (eg. a value of 300 will fetch the latest 300 candles). |
|`SIZING`| The method to use when calculating position size. |
|`RISK_PC`| The percentage of the account balance to risk when determining position risk-based size.|
|`PARAMETERS`| A dictionary containing strategy parameters (see below).|


Some things to note:
- `SIZING` can be either `'risk'` or an integer value, corresponding to the number of units to trade.
- `PERIOD` is used to specify how many candles to retrieve when live trading. For example, if period takes the value of 300, the 
latest 300 candles will be downloaded. This number will depend on the strategy which you have implemented. If your strategy 
uses lagging indicators, the value of `PERIOD` should be *at least* as much as the slowest indicator period in your strategy.


#### PARAMETERS
The parameters sub-dictionary of the `STRATEGY` key contains any information you would like to be able to access from your 
[strategy](strategies) module. Typically, this will include indicator configuration parameters, such as periods, and exit parameters, 
such as a risk-to-reward ratio. 



### WATCHLIST
The `WATCHLIST` key should be provided with a list of strings containing the instruments you would like to trade with the strategy.


### BACKTESTING
The `BACKTESTING` key defines the settings for backtesting. The required keys are shown in the table below

| key | Description |
|:-----:| ----------- |
|`base_currency` | The home currency of the account. |
| `initial_balance` | The starting balance in the account. |
|`spread`| The bid/ask price spread. |
|`commission`| The commission per trade, specified as a percentage value (eg 1 = 1%). |
|`leverage`| The account leverage (a value of 30 means 30:1 leverage). |
|`FROM`| The start date of the backtest, specified in DD/MM/YYYY format. |
|`TO`| The end date of the backtest, specified in DD/MM/YYYY format. |


### EMAILING
The `EMAILING` key takes the same form as that shown in the [global configuration](configuration-global) file. Including it here is 
entirely optional. However, if a mailing list is provided in the strategy configuration file, that mailing list will take precedence 
over the default mailing list provided in the global configuration file. This means that different mailing lists can be applied to 
different strategies. The same is true for the host email account. 
