---
title: AutoData
permalink: docs/autodata
key: docs-autodata
---


*This page is currently in development. Check back soon!*


`./lib/autodata.py`

```python
class GetData()
```

## Attributes
AutoData is initialised with a broker configuration dictionary, the output of the [environment manager](environment-manager). This dictionary
contains all the essential information related to the API being used for data feeds and trading actions.


|           Attribute        | Description                                                                          |
| :------------------------: | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|   `self.api` | The API context being used. |
| `self.home_currency` | The home currency of the account. |


Note that AutoData considers the home currency of the account being traded. This is so that backtest results can be displayed in terms of local
currency units, rather than absolute units, which is especially useful for trading currencies. As a result of this, each data feed has an associated
method to retrieve 'quote data', the price conversion data to convert from the currency being traded back to the home currency. 


## Oanda v20 REST API

When using the Oanda v20 API, instruments must be provided in the format of `XXX_YYY`, 
as specified in the [Oanda API documentation](https://developer.oanda.com/rest-live-v20/primitives-df/#InstrumentName). 
For example, to trade EUR/USD, specify as `EUR_USD`.

```python
def oanda(self, instrument, granularity, count=None, start_time=None, end_time=None)
```

To overcome the 5000 candle download limit when backtesting on extended time periods, a helper function `get_extended_oanda_data` has
been defined. This function wraps around the main data retrieval function and incrementally builds upon the data to retrieve the
full time range requested.

```py
def get_extended_oanda_data(self, instrument, granularity, from_time, to_time)
```



### Quote Data
Price conversion data is retrieved using the `oanda_quote_data` function. This function uses the `home_currency` attribute to 
determine whether or not conversion data is required.

```py
def oanda_quote_data(self, data, pair, granularity, start_time, end_time)
```


### Candlestick Granularity Format

Candlestick granularity must be passed as a string according to the format outlined in the  
[Oanda API documentation](https://developer.oanda.com/rest-live-v20/instrument-df/).








## Yahoo Finance API
The Yahoo Finance [API](https://pypi.org/project/yfinance/) is accessed from the function shown below.

```python
def yahoo(ticker, start_string, end_string, granularity=None)
```


### Quote Data
```py
def yahoo_quote_data(self, data, pair, interval, from_date, to_date)
```


### Candlestick Granularity Format

Candlestick granularity must be passed as a string according to the format outlined in the  
[Oanda API documentation](https://developer.oanda.com/rest-live-v20/instrument-df/).

> 1m, 2m, 5m, 15m, 30m, 60m, 90m, 1h, 1d, 5d, 1wk, 1mo.





## Utilities

### JSON Response to DataFrame
Function to convert api response into a pandas dataframe.

```py
def response_to_df(self, response)
```



### Granularity to Seconds
Converts the granularity to time in seconds.

```py
def granularity_to_seconds(self, granularity)
```