---
title: Getting Price Data
permalink: tutorials/price-data
key: tut-data
---

AuotTrader is compatible with all kinds of price data, regardless of the instrument being traded. This means that
it can be used for stocks, cryptocurrencies, foreign exchange, futures, options, commodities and even Mars 
bars - provided that you can get price data for them.
Luckily for you, AutoTrader is capable of retrieving price data for [supported instruments](../supported-api) automatically 
using the utility function [AutoData](../docs/autodata). All you have to do is provide a few details in the 
[configuration files](../docs/configuration) and runfile, and AutoTrader will take care of the rest.
If you would prefer to provide your own price data, you can simply pass the .csv file with your data to AutoTrader.


## Using AutoData
AutoData currently supports the following data feeds. Which feed you use depends on the type of instruments you wish 
to trade. For detailed documenation of *AutoData*, refer to the [docs](../docs/autodata).


### Yahoo Finance API
For preliminary strategy development, the Yahoo Finance API ([yfinance](https://pypi.org/project/yfinance/)) is most convenient. 
It supports:
- Stocks
- Indices
- Commodities
- Foreign Exchange Currencies
- Cryptocurrencies

An obvious limitation of this API is that is does not support live trading, only data retrieval. To access the Yahoo Finance API,
use the `feed` 'yahoo'. 



An important requirement of using the Yahoo Finance API is the correct specification of instruments in the `WATCHLIST` 
field of the strategy file. Instrument tickers must be specified exactly as they appear on 
[Yahoo Finance](https://finance.yahoo.com/). For example, [BTC/USD](https://au.finance.yahoo.com/quote/BTC-USD?p=BTC-USD&.tsrc=fin-srch) 
must be specified as `'BTC-USD'`, and stocks in [Woolworths on the ASX](https://au.finance.yahoo.com/quote/WOW.AX?p=WOW.AX&.tsrc=fin-srch) 
must be specified as `'WOW.AX'`.


### Oanda v20 REST API
For those interested in trading in the foreign exchange, the [OANDA REST-v20 API](https://developer.oanda.com/rest-live-v20/introduction/) 
may be of more interest. This API supports:
- Foreign Exchange Currencies
- Indices
- Bitcoin
- Commodities
- Bonds
- Metals


In the [strategy configuration](../docs/configuration-strategy) file, specify the feed as 'oanda':
To access the OANDA v20 API, use the `feed` 'oanda'. Note that to use the this API, you must also [make an account](https://www.oanda.com/au-en/trading/), obtain your API credentials, and specify them in the [global configuration](../docs/configuration-global) file. These details will 
look somthing like those shown below.

```yaml
OANDA:
  LIVE_API: "api-fxtrade.oanda.com"
  PRACTICE_API: "api-fxpractice.oanda.com"
  ACCESS_TOKEN: "12345678900987654321-abc34135acde13f13530"
  DEFAULT_ACCOUNT_ID: "xxx-xxx-xxxxxxxx-001"
  PORT: 443
```



## Providing your own data
If you are running AutoTrader from a run file, all you need to do is define the `data_file` attribute of AutoTrader. You must 
also place your data in a directory named 'price_data', within your working directory.

```python
from autotrader.autotrader import AutoTrader

at = AutoTrader()
at.data_file = 'price_data.csv'
```

Your directory structure will look something like this.

```
your_trading_project/
  |- config/
  |    |- GLOBAL.yaml
  |    |- your_strategy_config.yaml
  |- strategies/
  |    |- your_strategy.py
  |- price_data/
  |    |- AAPL.csv
  |    |- GOOG.csv
  |- run_script.py
```


