---
title: Going Live with AutoTrader
permalink: tutorials/live-trading
key: tut-livetrading
---


Live trading is the [default mode](../docs/autotrader) of operation in AutoTrader. As such, you are only 
required to specify the strategy configuration file. Of course, it is useful to provide additional inputs 
to AutoTrader, such as the `notify` flag, to ensure that your strategy is running as intended.


## Getting Ready for Deployment
If you have developed and backtested your strategy with AutoTrader, then it is likely that everything is set 
up already, and all you need to do differently to take your strategy live is set `backtest` to `False`. 
Before doing this, double check the following requirements are met in each configuration file.

### Global Configuration
Specify all required account information in the [global configuration](../docs/configuration-global) file
corresponding to your brokerage account.

### Strategy Configuration
Specify the correct trading environment, data feed, and (optionally) the trading sub-account to use in your
[strategy configuration](../docs/configuration-strategy) file.


## Automated Running
When you run AutoTrader in live-trade mode, it will analyse the current market conditions according to your
strategy and either do nothing, or submit an order to your broker. As such, you need a way to automatically run
AutoTrader at whatever interval your strategy demands. In theory, if you are running a strategy on the daily 
timeframe, you could manually run AutoTrader at a certain time each day. However, this will become tedious, 
especially when running a strategy on lower timeframes. To solve this, you will need a job scheduler.

If you are running on Linux, [cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) is a suitable option. Simply schedule 
the running of your run file at an appropriate interval, as dictated by your strategy. Alternatively, you could
write a wrapper script in python to periodically run your strategy.

